This file documents the revision history for AmuseWiki.

WARNING: *NEVER* run the test suite in the production tree, as will
leave stray logs and files. If you want to run 'make test', do it in a
dedicated tree.

1.802 2016-04-29

 - Decoupled mail sending from the application [INTERNAL]
 - Optimized /opds/crawlable
 - Removed simp_le from the stack and use Protocol::ACME instead

If you used to customize the mailer arguments, please update the
configuration as per README.

This is a beta release.

1.801 2016-04-22

 - Added /help/opds to explain what to do with the OPDS link

1.800 2016-04-22

 - Decoupled the localization framework from the application
 - Completed translations: fr and mk.
 - Updated depencencies Text::Amuse and Text::Amuse::Preprocessor

The upgrade should be transparent, but please see LOCALIZATION.txt for
details.

1.704 2016-03-11

 - Added dynamic robots.txt
 - Added sitemap.txt

1.703 2016-03-11

 - Added /opds/search
 - Added /opds/crawlable
 - Fixed footer layout

1.702 2016-03-08

 - Added /latest controller
 - Added opensearch description

1.701 2016-03-06

 - Fixed footer (OPDS was hidden)

1.700 2016-03-06

 - Added OPDS server under /opds

1.606 2016-02-22

 - Completed HR translation. ES, IT and HR are now completed.
 - Minor fixes (GH #39, #40, #41)
 - Adjusted js to work around bootstrap fixed topbar positioning
 - Fixed BB bug with partials and quotas (GH #38)

1.605 2016-02-09

 - Removed the cache for the listing. Optimized sql to compensate.
 - Simplified the logger code.
 - Optimized the static index generator to speed-up publishing.

1.604 2016-02-02

 - Added some documentation

1.603 2016-02-01

  - Minor bugfixes (triggered by different setups)

1.602 2016-01-31

  - Added option to the admin for hightlight.js configuration (select
    the languages you are interested in).
  - Fix to avoid jobber's crash when the db connection goes away in
    the wrong moment.

1.601 2016-01-22

  - Optimization for sorting of titles and categories

1.60 2016-01-22

  - Bookbuilder new feature: partial texts (#14)
  - Automated installer (#29)
  - Added javascript code highlighter (#1)
  - Moved cgit refreshing to module and trigger it on conf changes
  - Fixed BB crash when reusing setup with a cover (#30)
  - Fixed missing Xapian purging on deletion by git removal (#31)
  - Added delete button and code for category descriptions (#32)
  - Hold the webserver configuration in a model
  - Added let's encrypt support via simp_le
  - Bookbuilder new feature: running headers
  - Bookbuilder new feature: cropmarks
  - Bookbuilder new feature: custom paper size
  - New imposition schemas in the Bookbuilder
  - Daemon optimization with fork to keep the memory low
  - Prepared sources for debian packaging

Due to scripts renaming, please stop the application *before*
upgrading. Now the end-user scripts have an "amusewiki-" prefix.

Model::CgitProxy is gone and is replaced by Model::Webserver. If you
have in your config a <Model::CgitProxy> stanza with the port, please
replace it with cgit_port in a <Model::Webserver> stanza.

If you want to start using the let's encrypt certificates for SSL,
look at the LET'S ENCRYPT section in the INSTALL.txt document.

1.56 2015-12-02

 - Handle long author names (via bumped up Text::Amuse::Compile)
 - Added headings option to the bookbuilder (buggy, probably impossible to
   fix)
 - Updated i18n files

1.55 2015-12-01

 - Fixed git command for older gits

1.54 2015-12-01

 - Moved the files produced by the bookbuilder into a private directory (#27)
 - Added UI to add remotes to the repo (#18)

1.53 2015-11-23

 - Added option to upload an HTML file instead of pasting the body (#22)
 - Doc fixes (#22)
 - Hide the filters by default (#23)
 - Log user agent and referrer on 404 (#24)
 - Try not to hit the session without a reason (#25)

1.52 2015-10-30

 - Fixed bug due to bad file extension parsing, which was excluding
   some files after a pulling.

1.51 2015-10-30

 - Introduced description lists via new Text::Amuse
 - Introduced production of slides via new Text::Amuse::Compile
 - Slides are supported in the bookbuilder as well (single file)
 - Improved commit versions and crediting in the archive git history
 - Selection of slides themes and colors in the admin
 - Selection of mono and sans fonts in the admin

New fonts were added. To assert that you have all the required fonts
installed and to have the font preview properly working, please
execute:

  cd font-preview
  ./gen.sh

1.41 2015-10-26

 - New logging system: Log::Contextual + Log:Log4perl
 - Avoid useless question on revision selection screen

1.40 2015-10-24

  - Handle DB upgrades automatically (with DeploymentHandler)
  - Check installation on js on startup
  - Documentation fixes  (GH #8)
  - Improved admin revision display (GH #9)
  - List attachments in the revision descriptions (GH #13)
  - Fixed bug with author-related fields (GH #15)

IMPORTANT NOTICE. From this version the code itself is taking care of
dependency upgrades and db upgrades. If you are upgrading from a
version greater or equal to 1.20, there is nothing for you to do,
other than the usual upgrade routine:

 ./init-all.sh stop
 git pull
 ./init-all.sh start

If by chance you are upgrading from an earlier version, please be sure
to apply all the the intermediate sql files in the "sql" directory.


1.35 2015-10-15

 - Updated i18n: spanish
 - Do not validate the commit message on preview (GH #2)
 - New option to trigger the validation on commit message
   (default: enforce, can be set in the admin) (GH #2)
 - Removed from the repo jquery validation, use CDN if not installed
 - Localized the jquery validation messages
 - Fixed script install-cgit.pl
 - Fixed missing translitteration of Ã± (GH #10)
 - Fixed trailing space in footer (GH #12)

The jquery validation scripts are no longer shipped. If not present,
amusewiki will use the CDN, but PLEASE install them locally on upgrade:

 mkdir -p root/static/js/validate
 cd root/static/js/validate
 wget http://jqueryvalidation.org/files/jquery-validation-1.14.0.zip
 unzip jquery-validation-1.14.0.zip

Please reconfigure cgit to pick up the correct paths. Now you're not
required any more to symlink the repo in /var/cache/git if you don't
need the git:// cloning.

 ./script/install-cgit.pl --reconfigure

1.34 2015-08-26

 - Documentation fixes after walk through installation

1.33 2015-08-26

 - Bump up dependency to use EBook::EPUB::Lite
 - Suggest to use quote_names in the db connection settings

If you use postgres, please compare your dbic.yaml with
dbic.yaml.pg.example and add "quote_names: 1" to it.

1.32 2015-08-26

 - Completely removed fcgi_params from cgit nginx setup.
 - Allow the setting of the port for the cgit server (--cgit-port)
 - Allow the setting of the nginx configuration filename (--basename)
 - Moved ckeditor configuration into a route
 - Use CDN for ckeditor if not locally installed.
 - Added methods to serialize and deserialize site configs
 - New script clone-site.pl, for import and export of site configs
   across different instances

The fcgi_params reference was removed from the nginx configuration. If
you want to upgrade, execute:

  script/generate-nginx-conf.pl

And install the generated file as explained in the output (meant to be
cut and pasted as root).


1.31 2015-08-18

 - Refactored the nginx config generator
 - CSS fix for cgit
 - declare the encoding when serving static text files
 - updated translations: de

The new nginx configuration setup has a stanza for each site, to make
room for different SSL certificates. The common configuration was
moved to an included file.

To upgrade the configuration, execute

  script/generate-nginx-conf.pl

And install the generated file as explained in the output (meant to be
cut and pasted as root).

1.30 2015-07-24

 - Integrated cgit into the layout.
 - Optional upgrade to cgit latest release (0.11.2)
 - Unified the installation scripts install-cgit.sh and generate-cgit-repolist.pl
 - Fixed bug in site creation hostname validation

The configuration upgrade can be performed with

 script/install-cgit.pl --reconfigure

If you want to upgrade cgit as well, you can execute the script
without argument.

  script/install-cgit.pl

Notes: install libssl-dev if you're getting the error about missing
openssl/ssl.h during compilation.

Due to the new setup (with cgit listening only to localhost), you need to regenerate the nginx configuration with

  script/generate-nginx-conf.pl > /tmp/amusewiki

Install /tmp/amusewiki in the nginx configuration directory and
reload nginx.

1.25 2015-06-27

 - Layout fix release. No code changes.
 - Upgraded to Bootstrap 3.3.5 (latest), including CSS, JS, Glyphicons
 - Leveraged the glyphicons for the ToC toggler and navbar items
 - Improved navbar responsiveness


1.24 2015-06-20

 - Added polish language support (no translation in for now). For this
   an upgrade of Text::Amuse is required.

 - Before returning a 404 in a catchall route, look at the first
   fragment of the path and lookup texts, categories and aliases for
   the uri, redirecting there if found

1.23 2015-06-07

 - Fixed crash introduced in 1.22.

1.22 2015-06-06

 - Refactored Library controller to avoid ugly ->forward (thanks to mst)
 - Make possible to librarians to list and display deferred texts
 - Updated translations: it

1.21 2015-05-15

 - Added LuaLaTeX option (slow and experimental)

1.20 2015-05-14

 - Changed /topics and /authors to /category/topic/ and /category/author
 - Left permanent redirections in place
 - Added category description
 - Added category description editor (with muse markup)
 - Major bump because of changed paths

You have to apply the incremental script at
sql/AmuseWikiFarm-Schema-1.14-1.20-<your-db>.sql before the server
restart.

1.14 2015-04-30

 - New option to add a HTML snippet to special pages
 - New option to add arbitrary links in the "More" bar

You have to apply the incremental script at
sql/AmuseWikiFarm-Schema-1.05-1.14-<your-db>.sql before the server
restart.

1.12 2015-04-23

 - Added utils/import path to import chunks of HTML
 - Updated po files and italian translation

1.11 2015-04-19

 - Added new option to trigger the paginator in /archive and /archive/<lang>
 - Adjust the paginator according to the locale collation (diacritics)
 - Show the number of thext in /archive and /archive/<lang>

1.10 2015-04-12

This is a bugfix release.

 - Fixed multilang bug when the uri got the language prefix appended
   at each request on /new, so uri already taken generated something
   like uri-it-it-it.
 - Fixed missing category text count update on text deletion.
 - Fixed autocompletion api to return only used categories.

1.09 2015-04-08

 - Upgraded prerequisites to fix some false positives on lists
 - Minor style change in the preamble (from p to div)

1.08 2015-03-22

 - Added private site type, where only users have access.
 - Fixed crash on Xapian stemmer where site language is italian
 - Fixed crash when the supplied lexicon.json is invalid
 - Integrated lexicon.json in the localization plugin
 - Adjusted text's preamble

No DB upgrade needed.

1.07 2015-02-27

 - Fixed leaked template in the static indexes

This is a bug-fixing only release

1.06 2015-02-21

 - Bumped up prerequisites: Text::Amuse::Compile
 - Updated translations: mk
 - Added EPUB output to Bookbuilder
 - Added font embedding option to Bookbuilder's EPUBs
 - Added user administration (only for root users)

There is no DB upgrade, but to get the font embedding working you need
to populate the "webfonts" directory. To do so:

  cd webfonts
  ./populate-webfonts.pl

If you have the fonts installed and the fc-list output is parsable,
you should see the directory full of fonts. The space (ab)used with
these copies is about 32Mb (if you can't have 50Mb spare, better you
don't run this application at all).

1.05 2015-02-07

 - Bumped up prerequisites: Text::Amuse, Text::Amuse::Compile,
   PDF::Imposition
 - Added "opening" option to the site options.
 - Updated translations: it, hr.
 - Safe old revision (published) and job (completed) purging.
   Revisions and jobs older than 1 month will get be purged from the
   database and the associated files removed. Of course, this doesn't
   mean that the texts themselves are removed, just the revision.

This change is minor but requires a db upgrade. You have to apply the
incremental script at sql/AmuseWikiFarm-Schema-1.02-1.05-<your-db>.sql
before the server restart.

1.04 2015-01-08

 - Updated translations: ru, mk
 - Job page will show the queue, if any
 - Fixed bug with category's names being stuck on the first-come

No DB or dependencies upgrade required.

1.03 2014-12-07

 - Added 4UP imposition schema to the bookbuilder. The prerequisite of
   PDF::Imposition has been bumped up.
 - Bumped up Text::Amuse to fix a crash in some corner case with weird markup.
 - Added 9pt to the bookbuilder options.
 - The current running version is now shown as an empty file in the app dir.
 - Display the current cover image in the bookbuilder, if any.
 - Added sorting to topics and authors pages.
 - Extended the check on cross-site sessions. As a side effect, the
   logs should not be spammed anymore by dumb messages about session
   deletions because of UA mismatch.

If you use nginx, this upgrade requires a change in the ngnix
configuration. You can run again the script/generate-nginx-conf.pl and
check the differences produced. If you prefer the manual way, add this
stanza in the amusewiki server { } stanza:

    location /private/bbfiles/ {
        internal;
        # the following should be the actual path
        alias /home/amuse/amusewiki/bbfiles/;
    }

Modules to upgrade via CPAN: Text::Amuse and PDF::Imposition. Running
perl Makefile.PL will check if you got the correct versions.

1.02 2014-11-26

This release add Sans fonts support. To regenerate the preview (and
check that all the fonts are in place), you have to rerun the script
gen.sh in the font-preview directory:

 cd font-preview
 ./gen.sh

This release also add a new table to the database. Please run the sql
script sql/AmuseWikiFarm-Schema-0.998-1.02-XXXX.sql for your database
before the server restart.

Change list:

 - Added swedish translations
 - Added sans fonts
 - Improved language setting (html header and new texts) for multilanguage
 - Added options table
 - Added option for number of RSS and latest entry menu
 - Added toggler for cover upload's options

1.01 2014-11-20

This version bumps up the prerequisites Text::Amuse and
Text::Amuse::Preprocessor, which have to be upgraded.

There are no database schema changes.

 - Added swedish support
 - Fixed js diff script
 - Fixed bug with URIs overflowing because of multichar replacements
 - Require (client-side only) a username for anonymous commits
 - Updated schema images
 - Added a command-line fetcher to keep different sites synced

1.00 2014-10-22

 - Fist stable (or kind of stable) release
